Collaboration tools
===================

This document lists some communication and collaboration tools that
people in the OpenHatch community use in order to work together
effectively. The purpose of this part of the documentation is to help
people who are new to these tools quickly become oriented, and to help
us share tips on how to use these tools well.


Freenode IRC
------------

Developers, event organizers, documentation writers, bug filers, and
basically everyone in the OpenHatch community sometimes uses IRC as a
real-time chat system.

See https://openhatch.org/wiki/Contact to read more about how to join
us there.


Email lists
-----------

We use the email lists at http://lists.openhatch.org/ (hosted by the
free-software Mailman package).

These lists are typically publicly archived, and typically are open
for anyone to join. Archives are currently performed by the
"pipermail" software tool, which is widely-used but not universally
loved.


Etherpad
--------

Etherpad is a real-time, rich-text capable, free software text editor.

People discussing a topic on IRC often use it to think aloud so they
can write more than a few sentences at a time, and to get feedback on
an idea that is a paragraph or longer.

The Etherpad software is widely available; we typically use the
websites running Etherpad hosted by Mozilla or Wikimedia. To create a
new Etherpad document, one procedure is:

* Think up the name for the document (for example, oh-just-testing)

* Visit https://etherpad.mozilla.org/oh-just-testing

* Wait for it to ask you, "Do you want to create this pad?" and answer yes.

This way, you can choose the name of the pad, rather than accepting
the default behavior of having a randomly-generated name.

We typically treat Etherpads as temporary storing places for
documents, since it is easy to misplace the link to the
document. Therefore, it's usually a good idea to export a document as
HTML from within the Etherpad interface, and send that HTML document
to the devel list.


Google Docs
-----------

Google Docs is a free-of-cost collection of collaboration tools for
writing text documents, spreadsheets, and other such things.

We sometimes use that, too.


